Another crucial topic in domain-driven design is Aggregates. They are a fundamental concept in domain-driven design that helps to organize complex domain models. An aggregate is a group of domain objects that belong together conceptually and can be treated as a single unit. It includes a set of operations that can be performed on the encapsulated entities and value objects.
Aggregates are designed to simplify the domain model by gathering multiple related domain objects under a single abstraction. The aggregate should not be influenced by the data model, and the associations between domain objects are not the same as database relationships. The aggregate root is the entity that contains other entities and value objects, and all the logic to operate them. It has a global identity, such as a UUID, GUID, or primary key, while the entities inside the aggregate boundary have local identities unique only within the aggregate.
The aggregate root is the gateway to the entire aggregate. All references from outside the aggregate should only go to the aggregate root. Any operations on an aggregate must be transactional operations, meaning that either everything gets saved, updated, or deleted or nothing.
An aggregate must protect its invariants through the entire lifecycle. When a change is made to any object within the aggregate boundary, all invariants of the whole aggregate must be satisfied. This means that all objects within an aggregate must be consistent. If one object inside an aggregate changes state, it should not conflict with other domain objects inside the aggregate. This is called a Consistency Boundary.
Aggregates should be designed to be as small as possible to avoid performance and maintenance problems. Aggregates can publish Domain Events, which are notifications that something has happened in the domain.
All of these rules exist to create a boundary around aggregates. This boundary simplifies the business model by forcing us to consider each relationship carefully and within a well-defined set of rules.
in Domain-Driven Design an Aggregate is a group of related entities that are treated as a single unit for data changes. This concept helps define the boundaries of entities and maintain data consistency.
To summarize, an aggregate is a cluster of related domain objects that can be treated as a single unit. The aggregate root is the entity that contains other entities and value objects and all the logic to operate them. All references from outside the aggregate should only go to the aggregate root. Any operations on an aggregate must be transactional operations. An aggregate must protect its invariants through the entire lifecycle, and all objects within an aggregate must be consistent. Aggregates should be designed to be as small as possible to avoid performance and maintenance problems.
